3 Influenza strains and serological prevalence between 2009 to 
2015

Incidence of influenza A(H3N2) virus infections in Hong Kong in a 
longitudinal sero-epidemiological study, 2009-2015

Abstract
Background: Many serologic studies were done during and after the 
2009 influenza pandemic, to estimate the cumulative incidence of 
influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus infections, but there are few 
comparative estimates of the incidence of influenza A(H3N2) virus 
infections during epidemics. Methods: We conducted a longitudinal 
serologic study in Hong Kong. We collected sera annually and 
tested samples from 2009-13 by HAI against the 
A/Perth/16/2009(H3N2) virus, and samples from 2013-15 against the 
A/Victoria/361/2011(H3N2) virus using the hemagglutination 
inhibition (HAI) assay. We estimated the cumulative incidence of 
infections based on 4-fold or greater rises in HAI titers in 
consecutive sera. Results: There were four major H3N2 epidemics: 
(1) Aug-Oct 2010; (2) Mar-Jun 2012; (3) Jul-Oct 2013; and (4) 
Jun-Jul 2014. Between 514 516 and 614 619 relevant pairs of sera 
were available for each epidemic. We estimated that 98%, 2019%, 
57% and 7% of the population were infected in each epidemic, 
respectively, with higher incidence in children in epidemics 1 and 
4. Conclusions: We estimatedfound that around 5% to 20% of the 
Hong Kong population were infectedre-infections in each of the 
four H3N2 epidemics that occurred from 2010 through 2014 were 
rare. The largest H3N2 epidemic occurred with the lowest level of 
pre-epidemic immunity.
